<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title></title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section data-pdf-bookmark="Colophon" data-type="colophon" epub:type="colophon"><div class="colophon" id="colophon">
<h1>Colophon</h1>
<p>The animal on the cover of <em>Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow</em> is the fire salamander (<em>Salamandra salamandra</em>), an amphibian found across most of Europe. Its black, glossy skin features large yellow spots on the head and back, signaling the presence of alkaloid toxins. This is a possible source of this amphibian’s common name: contact with these toxins (which they can also spray short distances) causes convulsions and hyperventilation. Either the painful poisons or the moistness of the salamander’s skin (or both) led to a misguided belief that these creatures not only could survive being placed in fire but could extinguish it as well.</p>
<p>Fire salamanders live in shaded forests, hiding in moist crevices and under logs near the pools or other freshwater bodies that facilitate their breeding. Though they spend most of their lives on land, they give birth to their young in water. They subsist mostly on a diet of insects, spiders, slugs, and worms. Fire salamanders can grow up to a foot in length, and in captivity may live as long as 50 years. </p>
<p>The fire salamander’s numbers have been reduced by destruction of their forest habitat and capture for the pet trade, but the greatest threat they face is the susceptibility of their moisture-permeable skin to pollutants and microbes. Since 2014, they have become extinct in parts of the Netherlands and Belgium due to an introduced fungus.</p>
<p>Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are important to the world. The cover illustration is by Karen Montgomery, based on an engraving from <em>Wood’s Illustrated Natural History</em>. The cover fonts are URW Typewriter and Guardian Sans. The text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.</p>
</div>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>